There are two ways that you can create a basic standalone JAR
file that can be used to run your application.
The first is to utilize Maven to create JAR files that you
can use to run with the Java command, and here's that'll work.
Inside of IntelliJ,
we can just execute a Maven command and click on the Maven
pop-out in the right-hand corner here and go to this small
lowercase m to execute a Maven goal.
The Maven goal that we want to run is the mvn package goal.
If you inspect the output from running that command,
you'll notice that it compiles, runs your test,
and then packages your app into a JAR file.
Maven will place your artifact or your JAR file inside of this
target folder that's part of your application.
And if you open this up,
you can see that there is a artifact called
conference-demo- 0.0 .1 - SNAPSHOT.jar,
and that is the JAR file that contains your entire application.
To run the application with the Java command, we need to do a couple of things.
We first need to make sure that our application is
not running inside of the IDE, so I'm going to shut that down,
and then I'm going to jump over to a terminal.
IntelliJ provides a terminal if you want to just use that.
Once the terminal is open,
we simply just need to navigate into the target folder,
and we can see that we have our JAR file in here.
To run the JAR file, you simply need to execute the following command,
java -jar, and then supply the JAR file name.
When you run this,
this will look exactly like the output that you see in
the IntelliJ build or run server logs, but here,
we're running it from the command line.
You can see that it started with the Jetty server on port 5000.
So take a moment to think about what has happened here.
You can now run your app anywhere that you have Java installed.
This could be a server, or the cloud, or just simply, your laptop.
I'll go ahead and Ctrl+C this.
We'll jump back to the application now.
The second way that you can create your JAR file to run your app
is to create a standalone executable JAR file.
And in order to do this, we need to modify Maven slightly,
so I'm going to jump back into the pom.xml file.
In the POM file, find the Spring Boot plugin section at the bottom,
which is part of the build area, and we're going to add the following to it.
We're going to add a configuration tag and specify as executable is true.
We'll save the file.
IntelliJ is wanting us to import the changes,
which we want to do, so we'll click on that.
Once that's done synching,
we'll want to go ahead and run the Maven package again.
So we'll go back to the Maven pop-out, click on the m, and run mvn package.
Once that's built successfully, let's jump back to the terminal.
I'm going to go ahead and clear out the old output from
the previous run so we can start fresh.
And this time,
you'll notice that we're not going to start the JAR file using the java -jar.
It's now a standalone executable JAR file.
So on a UNIX or a macOS system, we can execute that by doing the.
/ and giving it the JAR file name.
Now when I run it,
you'll see that it's running the JAR file standalone
without even having to execute Java.
And unfortunately,
this particular command only works with UNIX or Linux-based systems.
So if you're on Windows,
this obviously isn't going to work the same because it's not
going to create an EXE file to execute,
but you still have the original way of running with a java
-jar command on the original JAR file.
And that's all it takes to create a Spring Boot deployable app
just by running it from the command line.
So hopefully you can start to see how powerful this is because you
can now run this anywhere that you can run Java,
which Java runs just about anywhere.
So coming up next,
let's look at some of the cloud platforms that we could possibly run our application in.